# v5 migration doc

This doc will help you use Topbar v5 to show different icons for `Resources`/`Calendar` and `Registrations`.  
This is required testing, training materials, and eventual deployment.

## v5 is of the future

Out of the box, Topbar v5 assumes the eventual condition of apps.  
The new `Registrations` icon used by default  
And `Calendar` only renders for the `{ id: 4, name: "Calendar"}` PCO API App record.

This poses a timing problem  
Because this future won't show up all at once.  
`Resources/Calendar` and `Registrations`
Need to "fake" that future while new training material and documentation is created.

## How to fake it 'til you make it

v5 adds three new functions for munging `apps` data received by PCO API.

### 1. `mapResourcesToCalendar`

This function takes the `apps` array — returned by PCO API — and modifies the `Resources` record to `{ name: "Calendar" }`.  
It's used to display the `Calendar` icon — in App Menus — where `Resources` is present.

### 2. `mapRegistrationsToExpiredRegistrations`

This function takes the `apps` array — returned by PCO API — and modifies the `Registrations` record to `{ name: "ExpiredRegistrations" }`.  
It's used to display the old Registrations icon instead of the new.

### 3. `mapApps`

This function is the default formatter.  
It returns exactly what was passed.

It's exposed for reasons detailed in the next section — on implementation.

## How to implement

Remember that every app composes its own Topbar.  
This gives your team full control over your implementation of Topbar.

All Topbars were originally set up with code that looks something like this:

```jsx
<AppsProvider>
  {(apps) => /* ...do stuff with the apps... */}
</AppsProvider>
```

In v5, `AppsProvider` has a `formatter` prop.  
It's used to format the `apps` object using the detailed functions above:

```jsx
<AppsProvider formatter={mapRegistrationsToCalendar}>
  {(apps) => /* ...all code here remains the same... */}
</AppsProvider>
```

That code "enables" `Calendar` in Topbar App menus — even though PCO API is still returning `Resources`.

These formatters are composable.  
So you can both "enable" `Calendar` rebrand and "disable" the new `Registrations` rebrand:

```jsx
<AppsProvider formatter={
  (apps) => mapRegistrationsToCalendar(
    mapRegistrationsToExpiredRegistrations(
      mapApps(apps)
    )
  )
}>
  {(apps) => /* ...Calendar is "enabled" and new is Registrations "disabled"... */}
</AppsProvider>
```

## Conditional formatting

As mentioned above the default formatter — `mapApps` — is exposed so you can provide the `formatter` prop conditionally (without resorting to cumbersome attribute spread patterns).

```jsx
<AppsProvider formatter={flipped ? myCustomerformatter : mapApps} />
```

It's also a good idea to include it in your custom formatters:

```js
import { myApps, mapResourcesToCalendar } from "@planningcenter/topbar";

function myCustomFormatter(apps) {
  return mapResourcesToCalendar(mapApps(apps));
}
```

Again, it's your show.

## Don't forget about `appName`

Everything above pertains to App menus.  
The persistent app name/logo is controlled by the `appName` prop.  
Switch on `Calendar`|`Resources` and `Registrations`|`ExpiredRegistrations` to control the persistent name/logo.

## Connect to Flipper

If you want to make this "flipperable", update your app's Topbar to take a prop that controls the `appName` and `formatter` values:

```jsx
class MyTopbar extends React.Component {
  // ...stuff

  static defaultProps = {
    renameCalendar: false,
  }

  render() {
    let { appName ...otherProps } = this.props, appsFormatter;

    if (renameCalendar) {
      appName = "Calendar";
      appsFormatter = mapResourcesToCalendar;
    } else {
      appName = this.props.appName;
      appsFormatter = mapApps;
    }

    return (/* ... */)
  }
}
```

Then flip it Rails-side:

```erb
= react_component("ResourcesTopbar", { renameCalendar: Feature.enabled?(:rename_resources), ... })
```

## References

If you'd like a practical reference,
This is the complete PR that enables a flipperable app name/logo in Resources/Calendar.

https://github.com/ministrycentered/resources/pull/2967/files

I'll provide more PR links as they become available.

## Wouldn't this be easier with Context and Hooks instead of all these nested state providers?

It sure would.
